we'll get to writing our first Java
program in a moment but when you give a
couple of meta points first any code I
write in these videos is going to be on
the site to click these code links it'll
bring you to a github repository that
will have all the things I write so you
can experiment with it
so if you want to know oh what happens
if I tweak this little bit you can
download the code run it and experiment
to your heart's content in second meta
point if you already know Java you may
want to double speed the rest of any of
these videos or even skip them because
it's just the very basics of java now
you know this class is gonna move
through Java very fast because we're
assuming you already have a substantial
amount of programming experience now
we're just gonna get you acquainted with
most salient features the language and
now it is time to write our first
program in Java so I'm gonna show on the
Left how we can print out the phrase
hello world and Python and when I run
this code it prints out hello world now
you don't understand Python it's not a
prerequisite for this class but the
point here is simply to say that it's
pretty simple language right like if I
want to print hello world that's all
like umm by contrast in Java well let's
just try and run the code and Java it is
no surprise that in Java trying to copy
and paste Python code into the Java
environment is not gonna work well and
if then I get this error class interface
or enum expected so what this compiler
is trying to tell us is I'm expecting a
class that's an important feature of the
Java language that all code must live
inside of a class and that it doesn't
make sense to have code that's not part
of one so to declare a class in Java
what I'm gonna do is say public class
and in this case I'm gonna give a name
to the class HelloWorld and what I've
done now is I've created a class which
is the thing that Java requires me to do
I try running this and again main method
not found in class HelloWorld please
define the main method as that so this
right here is about the most useful
error message ever you know often error
messages and compilers are mysterious
this one's saying please copy and paste
this into your code and so I have now we
don't know what this means yet you know
as we're learning but it's something
that we're gonna have in
all of our programs for quite a while
and what this does for us is well I'll
try running it for you what you see is
if I try running this now the compiler
is happy this is a valid class it has
this thing whatever that is we run it
and now finally nothing happens so in
other words what I've written on the
right this is the Java equivalent of
this program and pythons can they do the
same thing right so if I want to
actually cause it to print something out
this is where the codes gonna go how do
I do that
so what I'm gonna do is copy and paste
the HelloWorld
but a job it's not just Brent its system
dot out dot println hello world I want
to run this finally I get hello world so
that's the most basic program now one
famous aspect of Java is that it's a
little verbose and so this might seem a
little intimidating but it shouldn't be
right we're just have to accept that
there's certain things that are in Java
program so we won't understand quite yet
well trying to numerate a little bit so
down here I'm writing a comment this is
just information I put it between these
symbols which means the compiler won't
try and run it so I'm gonna make some
notes all code and Java must be part of
a class we delimited beginning and end
of segments of code using that symbol in
that symbol that all statements and Java
must end in a semicolon ok so what I
mean by that is I put a semicolon here
you might not have noticed if I delete
this and try running it the compiler
will yell at me and say semicolon
expected and then lastly we had a code
inside of our code to run we need public
static void main string args something
like that yeah whatever that thing is so
that's our first program so we're gonna
building a little more complicated but
just wanted to get that off our chest ok
this is our basic hello world program